hello listeners and hello video viewers
it's time to do another story on the
podcast this time i'm going to be
reading a story called the escaped man
by an author called ct platt the story
is presented on comma fall.com
commercial.com is a website where you
can find short stories fan fiction and
other reading texts and it's all
presented in a nice and easy to read
format so this time the story is the
escaped man and it's written by ct platt
okay and the way this is going to work
is that i will read the story once
and you can just try and follow it and
understand it and then i will summarize
the story very quickly in plain english
to make sure you've understood basically
what happened
and then we will go through the story
again line by line and i will break it
down for language and i will teach you
bits of vocabulary and bits of grammar
i'll point them out for you
so not only can you enjoy hopefully an
entertaining story but also we'll use it
as a way to learn some english okay
learning english through stories is a
great idea and it tends to work because
it places language in a vivid context
and is generally quite entertaining and
fun so listen to the story and then let
me break all the language down for you
bit by bit
okay so we're nearly ready to start
reading the story
just before i i read it to you here are
a few questions okay just to help you
focus so question number one is where
does the story take place
okay what do you think where's the
location of this story and how do you
know
and secondly is this american english or
is this british english
and how do you know
and thirdly the third question is simply
what is going to happen next can you try
and guess what's going to happen next
okay right so if you're ready uh let's
begin and i'm going to go to
commercial.com now and start reading
through the escaped man okay so i want
you to try and get into the right mood
here this is a sort of a mystery story
okay and it's got a slightly dark
atmosphere to it so here we go imagine
rain rainfall
imagine the rain beating down
here we go the escaped man by c.t platt
the rain was falling heavily
it was like driving through a thick
curtain of water
he eased off the accelerator a little
had to be careful driving on wild nights
like these
the last thing you'd want is to have an
accident or breakdown
you just want to be at home on these
stormy nights
the thwack thwack of the windscreen
wipers was hypnotic
he stared out into the glow of the
headlights
the rain sounded like white noise
interference as it battered the car
he was reminded of the opening scenes of
a hitchcock film
through the wash of the rain he spotted
a figure at the side of the road
the person wore a green parker and had
their thumb jerked out
why on earth would anyone be hitchhiking
tonight
surely you would just stay put until the
morning
they must have been in a rush to get
where they were going
he signaled down and pulled over
the hitchhiker climbed in
he shut the door quickly glad to be out
of the rain
he pulled his hood back
and sighed
he was somewhere in his mid twenties and
had wild red hair and a thick beard
awful night eh said the driver
the hitchhiker held his gaze for a long
moment
drops of rain water trickled down his
face
yes
yes it is
the driver pulled out and continued
through the storm
the hitchhiker glanced over his shoulder
into the blackness behind them
[Music]
you okay
the hitchhiker simply nodded
they drove on in silence for a short
while
the bbc radio phone-in blaring out from
the car's speakers filled in for
conversation
they listened to the radio and their own
thoughts as they moved on
where are you headed ask the driver
north
the hitcher pointed
you traveling to visit friends
the driver couldn't tell if that
was a yes or a no
he adjusted his tie nervously
the hitcher stared at him in his suit
and tie
the hitches seemed scruffy in comparison
in his parker and pink floyd t-shirt
do you work around here
ask the hitcher
yes said the driver i was stuck late at
the office you know how it is
no not really
again they drifted into silence
the talk show radio show carried on as
they drove through the wind and rain
the hitcher shifted in his seat
and stared out of the windscreen
[Music]
no music
the hitcher asked
what
is there no music we could listen to
i like the talk radio shows i'm i'm not
really a music fan
the hitches eyes glazed over for a
moment
then he spoke
i like listening to music
calms me down
the driver said nothing
several miles later there was a news
bulletin on the radio the reporter tried
to remain professional as she read the
announcement
we are getting reports that a patient
has escaped from a manchester
psychiatric institution the man is said
to be psychopathic and is said to have a
history of murder
the hitcher jabbed a finger on the
button on the radio panel
teeny pop music blurted out from the
speakers
the driver stared at his passenger his
question unasked
i hate the news answered the hitcher
it's so depressing
it brings me down
there's never any good news is there
the driver didn't reply
don't worry i'm not the killer
said the hitcher
fidgeting with his coat
don't worry i i'm not the killer
no said the driver i mean no
of course you aren't
they drove on listening to the crappy
pop music and over excited radio djs the
rain pounded on the car
what do you do for a living ask the
driver
the hitcher was quiet for a moment then
he grinned
i'm a writer
really how interesting have you had
anything published
no as yet i'm an undiscovered artist
i'm sure you'll make it
what are you working on at the moment
i'm writing a novel
oh yes
it's about a serial killer
the driver didn't speak
he flicked the radio station back on
a man was rambling on with himself about
the change in days his wheelie bins were
emptied
where can i drop you
asked the driver
the hitcher said nothing
when the driver glanced round
his passenger had his eyes closed he was
either asleep or feigning slumber
so just
they drove on through the storm
down the snaking lanes
an hour later the storm still growled
and raged the hitcher looked out of the
window the driver steered the car in
silence
another news bulletin came over the
radio
we're getting more information on the
escaped patient the killer's name is
simon hughes
he escaped from the green pastures
institute earlier this evening
simon hughes made his escape by changing
from his hospital issue uniform into a
suit and tie and pretending to be one of
the medical staff he stole a car and
drove off
the hitcher turned to the
driver what did you say your name was
my name's simon
the hitcher stared in shock
simon grinned
the headlights of a passing car glinted
off the knife blade
in simon's hand
the end
okay
so that's the escaped man
by ct platt
what were the questions i asked you
where does this take place was the first
one
and the answer to that question is that
the story takes place somewhere in the
uk i think it's england and in fact
since the um
the killer escape from the from an
institute in manchester i think it must
take place in the north of england
somewhere
uh british english or american english
it's british english as we will see in a
moment as i go through the the story
line by line i'll point out
um the things that show that it's
british english
and thirdly what is going to happen next
well i just wanted to kind of keep you
on your toes but did you did you um
see that twist coming because there was
a twist in the story that sort of thing
is called a twist did you see the twist
coming some of you will have seen it
coming
the first time i read this i have to be
honest i sort of saw it coming because
the way the story was setting things up
seemed a bit too obvious and i thought
well there's going to be a twist here
let me explain what happened then so a
man was driving through the rainy
streets
of england somewhere
and he sees a hitchhiker
and it's raining very heavily so he lets
the hitchhiker in the hitchhiker
behaves a little bit suspiciously and
seems to be a bit disdainful
or hateful towards the driver and it
seems the the the way the characters are
described it it sort of presents the
driver as a much more
normal person wearing a suit they've
been to work
just friendly
uh
giving someone a ride in their car
and the hitch hiker is presented as
someone with wild red hair
they do something a bit more
unconventional in their work writing a
book about a serial killer
he seems to be a bit sort of um
anti-establishment or anti-social in
some way he seems like a slightly scary
character and then we hear on the radio
that a serial killer has escaped from an
institute an institute would be a
hospital or something like that
and so naturally we think that it's the
hitchhiker with his crazy appearance and
his scruffy uh
look and his kind of serious slightly
psychotic um behavior
but then it turns out that the serial
killer
is the driver of the car because the the
next news bulletin explains that the
psychotic killer
escaped from a hospital
changed their clothes into a suit and
stole a car and the name is simon hughes
and this person's wearing a suit the
driver and he's in a car and so the
hitchhiker sort of gets shocked and
realizes that this could be the killer
and it turns out that the the driver is
also called simon and then at the end
they've got a knife
uh
a traffic light or um
another light from a car reflects off
the blade of the knife uh which shows
that the driver is going to kill the
hitchhiker
the next victim
so there you go that was the twist that
it was the driver that was the killer
not the hitchhiker i wonder how many of
you uh noticed
that twist before it happened
okay now it's time to get into the
english teaching side of this
and so i'm now going to break the story
down line by line and what we're looking
for what i'm looking for
are bits of vocabulary so this could be
phrases or any
outstanding bits of vocabulary that i
think were
likely to be a bit more difficult
the standard stuff i think that most
people will will understand at an
intermediate level or something we're
looking for phrases and bits of language
that are a bit beyond that kind of level
and anything else that i think is worth
pointing out okay
right so here we go the escaped man by
ct platt the rain was falling heavily
now what i'd like to point out here is
simply that stories often begin with
past continuous this is past continuous
the rain was falling heavily
in fact it's a bit of a cliche that
stories begin with the rain falling you
know it's a sort of a cliched way to
begin a mysterious story it's just to
say that it was raining heavily
the rain was falling heavily now stories
often begin with past continuous because
we use past continuous like this that's
the verb be in the past that's was or
were plus an ing form we use this to set
the context
in which the the main events of the
story happen so for example you know it
could be the sun was shining and the
birds were singing i was driving along
in my car when something happened
and those past continuous contextual
things always get interrupted or or are
followed by past simple
past simple these are the main events of
the story this happened then this
happened then this happened
just the main events of the story one
after the other whereas past continuous
this thing was happening here was the
situation interrupted by a past simple
event the rain was falling heavily um he
eased off the accelerator a little bit
okay there's also past perfect which is
used to describe background details
backstory for example uh the rain was
falling heavily it hadn't rained like
this for months
you know this is the first time this was
the first time it had rained like this
so we used past perfect to describe
events before the main events that we're
talking about i'm pretty sure there's no
past perfect in this story though but we
do get bits of um past continuous again
just to establish the context we'll
point them out as we go through falling
heavily yes the rain was falling heavily
it was like driving through a thick
curtain of water
it was like doing something so just you
know nice descriptive language this is
what we call a simile whenever you use
the word like it was like blah blah blah
you know the sun was like an orange in
the sky um the rain was like a thick
curtain of water in fact it's it
probably was a thick curtain of water
but anyway it was like and then an ing
form meaning it was similar to this
it was like driving it was like walking
it was like
you know um
teaching
um it was like driving through
a thick curtain of water that's fairly
clear he eased off the accelerator a
little the accelerator is the pedal in
the car that makes the car drive faster
that's the accelerator it's a pedal on
the floor and you press your foot on it
in order to go in order to move forwards
but if he eased off the accelerator to
ease off means to
put less pressure on or to slow down
basically but when you when you're
pressing your foot on the accelerator
you have to press it down with some
force and if you ease off it means you
put less pressure on use less force
take your foot off the accelerator a
little bit and slow down
he eased off the accelerator had to be
careful driving on wild nights like
these wild meaning normally we have wild
to describe animals uh which are not
domesticated or not pets
like uh you know an elephant would be a
wild animal
or any other animal that you would
encounter in the wild like a bear or
just a you know any kind of bird these
are wild animals wild nights wild nights
like these where the rain is is falling
down heavily we don't quite know what's
going to happen it's a bit dangerous
wild means
un
unpredictable and potentially dangerous
the last thing you'd want is to have an
accident or breakdown
the last thing you'd want this is quite
a nice phrase the last thing now it
could be the last thing you want or the
last thing you'd want so it can you
could have wood here or or not and this
is wood by the way the last thing you'd
want is to have an accident
um
you can use that for other things like
you know you should probably take an
umbrella and right you should probably
take an umbrella with you because the
last thing you want is to get caught in
the rain
you know best pack some water with you
because the last thing you want is to
get thirsty on the road you know
so
the last thing you'd want is to have an
accident or breakdown and this is a
breakdown
okay the noun a breakdown this is when
the car has a problem and doesn't drive
anymore
that's a breakdown that's the noun we
also have the verb version and that's to
break down notice that we if it's a verb
we stress the second part to break down
okay you better take some fuel you
wouldn't want to break down the last
thing you'd want is to break down the
last thing you'd want is to have a
breakdown
so you have a breakdown or you break
down
you hear the difference in stress so
when it's a noun the first syllable is
stressed breakdown
and when it's a verb the second part is
stressed to break down
the last thing you'd want is to have an
accident or breakdown you just want to
be at home on these stormy nights
the thwack thwack of the windscreen
wipers was hypnotic
so windscreen wipers these are the
things that
on a car
that helps to keep the water off the
windscreen they wipe the water away
right
those things they're called windscreen
wipers because the glass here on the
front is the windscreen
by the way
yes british english
this is um british english windscreen
in american english they call it the
windshield
but in the uk it's called the windscreen
okay so the thwack thwack of the
windscreen wipers thrack this these are
this is an onomatopoeia a word that
sounds like what it's describing and
it's just describing the noise that the
windscreen wipers make thwack flak
thwack
the thwack thwack of the windscreen
wipers was hypnotic meaning it's sort of
like
um the repetitive sound
hypnotized the driver a little bit or
something like that
sort of a hypnotic repetitive sound
starts to put you into a trance
or something
he stared out into the glow of the
headlights stared meaning looked
intensely like that without looking away
he stared out into the glow of the
headlights so as other car i guess the
glow of his headlights
forming a glow
where as the rain is coming down a glow
into the darkness
the rain sounded like white noise
interference as it battered the car
white noise interference so interference
would be
noise which comes in let's for example
let's say for example you're talking on
the telephone or you're listening to the
radio and if there's other noise like
that's interference it's noise that
interferes
something else that you're doing
like listening to the radio
you have to tune the radio to try and
try and get rid of the interference
so
the rain
on the car sounded like white noise
interference as it battered the car so
we know what interference is it's noise
that sort of interrupts
something but um
white noise white noise is is a form of
noise that has no distinguishable
distinguishable characteristics to it no
rhythm no melody or anything like that
it's just like the noise that you get
when you
turn on an old tv and you unplug the
aerial from the back and you just get
that's white noise
so the rain
sounded like white noise interference as
it battered the car batter means hit
bam bam bam right
he was reminded of the opening scenes of
a hitchcock film
so alfred hitchcock has was a filmmaker
famous for his dramatic storytelling his
dramatic visual storytelling and this is
the sort of way that hitchcock films
would often begin hitchcock films are
also known for uh featuring like death
killers murderers serial killers and
things like that so it's sort of a bit
like the beginning of a classic
hollywood thriller or something like
that
through the wash of the rain he spotted
a figure at the side of the road
the person wore a green parker and had
their thumb jerked out
right through the wash of the rain he
spotted a figure at the side of the road
a figure means the outline of a person
okay so he
he spotted a figure at the side of the
road now the outline of a person the
person wore a green parker a green
parker is like a long green coat with a
hood on it
and had their thumb jerked out
so your thumb obviously that
when you go hitchhiking your thumb is
what you stick out so people can see
that you're hitchhiking he had his jump
his jump no jump is not a word i don't
know what that is he had his thumb
jerked out
to jerk out i guess means to stick out
so to jerk your thumb out just stick
your thumb out so people can see it
he had his jump his jump again
what do i keep saying jump i don't know
he had his thumb jerked out like that
showing that he was hitchhiking
why on earth would anyone be hitchhiking
tonight
surely you would just stay put until the
morning they must have been in a rush to
get where they were going
why on earth would anyone be hitchhiking
tonight so this on earth
we use this to sort of emphasize our
questions
and on earth
goes after the wh question word so if
it's for example why
what are you doing what on earth are you
doing uh where are you going where on
earth are you going
who are you who on earth are you
and so on how did you do that how on
earth did you do that
so it just makes the question more
emphatic
why on earth would anyone be hitchhiking
tonight surely you would just stay put
until the morning to stay put is to stay
in one place without moving just stay
put stay put until i get back
wait here stay put don't move stay put
means stay in the same place they must
have been in a rush to get where they
were going so the person is speculating
here
it's in the past so that's why it must
have been
he's certain that the person was in a
rush
now why would this be why would this
person be in a rush maybe they're trying
to escape or something like that this is
what the story is sort of suggesting to
you it's cleverly written because the
story is telling you this person is
escaping the hitchhiker is escaping from
something they're in a rush to escape
they're rushing
to to escape for some reason i don't
think the character is russian though i
think they're both british
that was the russian joke
anyway
he signaled down and pulled over so when
you're driving you signal with your
indicators click click click click click
click signal left signal right in this
case he signaled down
suppose it means he signals to pull over
and he pulled over to pull over is when
the car
pulls up at the side of the road
and stops
right just like a taxi pulls over in
order to pick someone up
the car pulled over
in order to pick up the hitchhiker pull
over and pull up as well means basically
the same thing stop at the side of the
road
so he signaled and pulled over the
hitchhiker climbed in he shut the door
quickly glad to be out of the rain if
you're glad it means you're happy you're
relieved
ah what a relief to be out of the rain
he pulled his hood back and sighed
say that side
ah that's the sigh he pulled his hood
back and her side
he was somewhere in his mid-20s and had
wild red hair and a thick beard wild red
hair i suppose his messy red hair and a
thick beard
awful night a said the driver the driver
is quite friendly now the driver is on
this side
if you're watching the video you'll see
that the driver looks to his left
because we are in britain and in britain
we drive on the left
okay which is in fact the right side of
the road i know what you you think left
that's wrong no left is right
because left is right and right is wrong
it doesn't matter of course but anyway
in the uk we drive on the left so if you
drive on the left then the driver's seat
is on the right of the car so as a
driver as the driver i'm looking this
way when i talk to the hitchhiker and
the hitchhiker's looking this way so the
driver says all for night a awful night
trying to be friendly and the hitchhiker
held his gaze for a long moment
someone's gaze
is the way that they are looking
so he held his gaze for a long moment
meaning he stared at him like this in
his eyes
what did he say awful night and then the
hitchhiker's response is to do this
just holding his gaze holding his eyes
for a long moment drops of rain water
trickled down his face
yes
yes it is
this is the bit i enjoy i enjoy doing
the faces of the driver in the
hitchhiker yes it is yeah
said the hitchhiker
what's up with this hitchhiker
where's he going in such a hurry and why
has he got such weird behavior
the driver pulled out
which is the opposite of pull over in
this case pull out into the road to
drive away
and continue through the storm the
hitchhiker glanced over his shoulder
into the blackness behind him
glance is sort of like take a quick look
again what's the uh
what's this hitchhiker escaping from huh
like
seems a bit suspicious glancing over his
shoulder
you okay
said the driver
the hitcher simply nodded
yeah man
yeah man i'm okay
like are you are you okay
yeah i think so
hmm suspicious behavior they drove on in
silence for a short while they drove on
me means they continued driving so they
drove on in silence
so in goes with silence
in silence and on goes with drive so
they drove on in silence for a short
while
the bbc radio phone in blaring out from
the car's speakers filled in for
conversation so the bbc radio phone-in
bbc radio another indication that this
is in the uk because the bbc's the
british broadcasting corporation
um
and a radio phone-in so phone-in
that's a phrase a phone-in is a radio
show where people phone in listeners can
phone in
meaning send telephone calls to the
radio station and talk to the presenter
during the show it's a kind of chat show
format the radio phone in
so the bbc radio phone in blaring out
from the car speakers blaring out just
means not making a loud noise
so music blares out from speakers
a radio show blares out from the radio
so the bbc radio phone in blaring out
from the car speakers filled in for
conversation
fill in
fill in this is when something is
missing and you put something else in
uh as a replacement
for example
if normally you have sarah as your
english teacher and one day you come to
school and sarah's not there and i'm
there instead and everyone's like
where's sarah and i said i'm afraid
sarah's sick today she can't come to
school today because she's not well but
i'm filling in for sarah today
okay
to fill in in this case i replaced sarah
for a day
uh in the case of the story the radio
phoning the noise of the radio filled in
for conversation because there was no
conversation so the radio
sort of filled in the noise instead
replaced the conversation that wasn't
happening
they listened to the radio and their own
thoughts as they moved on just listen to
the radio listen to your thoughts is a
phrase that we do say as they moved on
so we've got drive on
move on what else have we got
with on
i'm sure there are others
hmm i'm sure there are others with on
but anyway we've got drive on
and then move on right they listened to
the radio and their own thoughts as they
moved on move on continue moving uh
drive on continue driving
where are you headed ask the driver
headed to be headed somewhere means to
be going somewhere somewhere is your
destination okay for example i'm just
heading to the pub do you want to come
when you get to the pub you head to the
bar
once you've got your drinks you head to
a table
you see and then when you're finished
you head home
okay where are you headed meaning where
are you going basically
north pointed
the hitcher pointed i don't know why it
was necessary for the hitcher to point
north at this
in this case
where are you going
north
all right got my compass
that way
all right
are you traveling to visit friends
there's so for the driver he's trying to
make polite conversation i imagine that
the driver would be using that sort of
intonation like i'm just trying to make
conversation so um are you traveling to
visit friends or
that sort of thing
now by the way you could repeat after me
as we go through this you could even go
back to the beginning of this episode
this video and repeat each line after me
and try and copy my intonation that can
actually be a very good thing to do
obviously listen understand the story
understand the bits of english i'm
explaining to you but try to repeat the
lines from the story as well and try and
give some color and performance to it as
well so you could skip back to the
beginning of this and after each line
pause and repeat the line after me try
and make it sound like the way i did it
as well
um you traveling to visit friends are
you are you are you traveling
not are you traveling but are you
traveling are you traveling to visit
friends
hmm
that's what hmph means it means
the driver couldn't tell if that was a
yes or no he couldn't identify if hmm
was a yes or no he adjusted his tie
nervously so if you're wearing a tie
which is the thing that goes around your
neck when you're wearing a suit and
that's pronounced suit by the way not
sweet
or suit it's
suit so when you're wearing a suit with
a tie sometimes you need to
adjust the tie
as it's around your neck if it's a bit
tight or something or it might just be a
nervous habit to adjust your time adjust
meaning change the way it's positioned
change the position of something he
adjusted his tie nervously the hitcher
stared at him in his suit and tie
so i'm imagining here that the hitcher
has got nothing but contempt for this
driver in his suit and tie just a
someone who works an ordinary nine to
five job
the hitcher seems to be sort of an
alternative
type person who probably has contempt
for
people who work normal jobs so the
hitches stared at him in his suit and
tie
with a disgusting look of contempt on
his face
the hitcher seems scruffy scruffy means
untidy
in comparison in his parker and pink
floyd t-shirt
this is the hitcher right do you work
around here
yes said the driver so this is where i
as the driver i'm trying to be as
innocent as possible yes said the driver
i was stuck late at the office you know
how it is oh he's maybe a bit posh yeah
i was stuck late in the office you know
how it is
no not really
says the hitcher unfriendly
again they drifted into silence
oh bit awkward
they drifted into silence
drift
so when a boat is on the water it moves
slowly right it moves
eventually over time it drifts
and you can drift into silence as well
that's when you slowly
drift into sight to suddenly slowly
become silent so they're just sitting
there in silence
the talk radio show carried on
so we got to drive on to move on to
carry on the talk radio show carried on
as they drove through the wind and rain
the hitcher shifted in his seat that
means he sort of changed his seating
position maybe his bum was getting tired
or something maybe he was feeling a
little uh nervous or anxious anyway he
shifted in his seat and stared out the
windscreen or stared out of the
windscreen
windscreen is the big window at the
front of the car that's the windscreen
then you've got the back window you've
got the side windows but the main one at
the front is called the windscreen in
america the windshield
that's what they call it there they're
wrong of course it's a windscreen
oh got the sounds of drilling
outside
no music the hitcher asked
full of hate and murderous rage no music
he said sharpening his knife no music
then
uh what
is there no music we could listen to
i i really like the talk the radio talk
shows i'm i'm not really a music fan
said the driver
the hitches eyes glazed over for a
moment if your eyes glaze over it's like
you suddenly become very bored
or it's like you're not really there so
i'm going to try and show you my eyes
glazing over on video so this is me all
alert and looking wide awake but if my
eyes glaze over
it's like i'm not really concentrating
on
at all i'm not really looking at
anything in particular i'm just lost in
my own thoughts my eyes are glazed over
a bit like if i go into one of my
classrooms full of students learning
english and i say okay everyone today
we're going to do
nine hours of pure grammar
and everyone's eyes probably would just
glaze over as they mentally switch off
so anyway the hitchhiker's eyes glazed
over for a moment and then he spoke
and this is where the hitchhiker
is revealing his
slightly psychotic
personality maybe and he says
i like listening to music
it calms me down
[Music]
when i'm in a murderous rage
the music calms me down
anyway i like listening to music it
calms me down
said the hitchhiker in a slightly
psychotic moment
the driver said nothing
i've got a nutter in the car
several miles later here's another
indication that we are
in the uk because we use miles
uh rather than kilometers a mile is
about 1.6 kilometers or kilometers
several miles later there was a news
bulletin on the radio show a bulletin
just means a little news report
the reporter tried to remain
professional as she read the
announcement so apparently the pro the
reporter was sort of shocked or nervous
but tried to remain professional and now
i'm i do this i'm going to do this in my
bbc news report voice
we're getting reports that a patient has
escaped from a manchester psychiatric
institution the man is said to be
psychopathic and is said to have a
history of murder
so um we're getting reports that a
patient has escaped from from a
manchester psychiatric institution
that's fairly clear
grammar wise vocab wise a psychiat
psychiatric institution would be a sort
of a hospital for people with
psychiatric disorders that's mental
disorders here's some grammar the man is
said to be psychopathic
and is said to have a history of murder
this is just another way of saying that
people say
the man is psychopathic
we don't know who said this or maybe
it's not important who said this or it's
obvious who said this it's probably
going to be doctors at the institute the
institution
but it's a common phrase
is said to be meaning people say so the
man is said to be psychopathic and he's
said to to have a history of murder oh
the hitcher jabbed a finger on the
button
on the radio panel
jabbed
we got jerked his thumb out
for hitchhiking and now he's jabbing his
finger on the button to jab your finger
on the button means to poke the button
to quickly press the button bing like
that
quickly in order to in this case
interrupt the radio broadcast
so the hitcher quickly switches off the
radio or switches the channel
tiny pop music blurted out from the
speakers so here's blurted out again
meaning when the noise comes out
no we had blair out didn't we before
b-l-a-r-e
blaring out from the speakers blurting
out from the speakers is basically the
same thing people can blurt out as well
that's when you say something that
without really thinking about it bam the
word just comes out
he blurted out the answer without
thinking about it for example so in this
case teeny pop music blurted out from
the speakers
tinny tin tin is a form of metal but if
you say that music is tinny it means
that it's trebley it doesn't sound deep
and rich it's just that sort of
just very trebley sounds teeny music pop
music blurted out from the speakers the
driver stared at his passenger his
question unasked
so the driver is kind of shocked about
the news report
someone is
somebody escaped a murderer is on the
loose a murderer
and the hitchhiker's just quickly turned
off the radio or turned the channel and
so the driver is looking at his
passenger like this
did i look the right way in the story i
can't remember
like that
i hate the news answer the hitcher it's
so depressing it brings me down
depressing means makes you feel sad and
depressed it brings me down means it
makes you feel sad and depressed don't
bring me down
with your bad news you're bringing me
down this this sad music is bringing me
down
there's never any good news is there
said the hitcher
the driver didn't reply
don't worry i'm not the killer
said the hitcher fidgeting with his coat
the hitches fidgeting with his coat if
you're fidgeting with something it means
you're sort of playing with something in
your hands maybe because you're nervous
or you're thinking about something but
fidgeting means kind of playing with
something in your fingers i always
fidget with my train tickets
don't worry i'm not the killer said the
hitcher fidgeting with his coat
no said the driver i mean no of course
you aren't
they drove on listening to the crappy
pop music
crappy means
bad
uh and over excited radio djs the djs on
djs on radio shows they're always very
excited like this in fact they're too
excited they're over excited you're
listening to the drive times show on
raby radio excited
fm
um the rain pounded on the car bam bam
bam bam
what do you do for a living asked the
driver
the hitcher was quiet for a moment then
he grinned
i can't really do a grin
you've got to be a really good actor
he's quiet for a moment then
a grin is normally it can be quite scary
i'm a writer he said oh really how
interesting have you had anything
published says the driver
no as yet i'm an undiscovered artist
oh another scary thing not only is this
person slightly crazy
and ginger but also they're an
undiscovered writer
sort of person who has been slaving away
writing but um
no one has discovered their artistic
talent and we know don't we from history
that when poor artists don't get
recognized what happens
that's right they try to take over the
world and and try and kill everyone so
this is another scary thing about this
hitcher that's not only does he have
ginger hair which is obviously
terrifying especially on a dark night
i'm joking of course but also he's an
undiscovered artist
so he probably hates society and hates
people like this
idiot in the suit
and the driver says i'm sure you'll make
it what are you working on at the moment
i'm writing a novel
oh yes
it's about a serial killer
the driver didn't speak he flicked the
radio station back on flick
flick flick flick flick you flick a
switch
flick means pune um hit something with
your finger quickly so you flick a
switch or you might flick let's say
imagine this there's a peanut sitting on
a table you don't want to eat it you
want to fire the peanut across the
garden so ping you flick it with your
finger that's flick as well flick a
switch flick the channel on the
radio um a man was rambling on with
himself about the change in days his
wheeling be his wheelie bins were
emptied so a man was just talking about
uninteresting things rambling
means talking without any specific
purpose or direction long-term listeners
my podcast should know rambling is what
i do on the podcast quite a lot talking
without um a specific focus just letting
yourself talk and meander and go from
one subject to the other and it's
rambling with an a not with a u
uh people often write in comment
sections and stuff i love your rumbling
it's not rumbling rumbling is
the sound of thunder that's rumble
ramble r-a-m-b-l-i-n-g
talking with without any particular
direction also rambling means walking in
the countryside
uh for enjoyment so anyway a man was
rambling on
meaning continuing to ramble so we've
had drive on move on ramble on carry on
a man was rambling on with himself about
the change in days his wheelie bins were
empties wheelie bins are big bins big
rubbish bins um
that you put all your rubbish in in your
black rubbish bags so you in your
kitchen you've got your rubbish bin with
a black bag in it and you put your
rubbish in there and then when it's full
you tie it up take it outside and put it
into your wheelie bin and the wheelie
bin is outside normally the front of the
house and when the rubbish removal
people come with their big van they take
the bin and wheel it on its wheels to
the back of the van and then tip the
contents into the into the back of the
truck where it gets crushed so a wheelie
bin is a large
plastic rubbish bin with wheels on it
which you can move around and wheelie
bins get emptied by the council when
they bring their rubbish fan through
and apparently this man on the radio was
basically talking about nothing
important
talking about the days when his wheelie
bins were changed so nothing
particularly important just typical uh
radio talk show stuff
where can i drop you ask the driver
meaning where can i you know deliver you
in this in this car meaning stop the car
let you get out
you pick someone up in a car
you give someone a lift
and you drop someone somewhere
you can just drop me outside the cinema
drop me outside the office
where can i drop you ask the driver
the hitcher said nothing
when the driver glanced around
had a quick look round his eyes
uh uh
his passenger had his eyes closed
he was either asleep or feigning slumber
slumber means sleep
feigning means pretending faking
feigning slumber then means pretending
to be asleep so he was either asleep or
pretending to be asleep he was either
asleep or feigning slumber so he was
when his eyes closed
they drove on through the storm down the
snaking lanes lanes are roads
narrow little roads snaking means
they're turning left to right
here we have on comfortable.com the
picture that normally accompanies this
line of the story is not available and
instead we've got like a car that says
this content is not available in the
background instead of a picture of some
rain or something anyway the story
continues an hour later the storm still
growled and raged
growled that's
growl is what a a frightening animal
would do like a tiger
or a lion
or a crocodile
or whatever it is
the storm still growled and raged the
hitcher looked out of the window the
driver steered the car in silence steer
the car turn left and turn right
another news bulletin came over the
radio
so by the way at this point we all think
that the driver is a nice person who
just works in an office
and who took pity on this hitcher and we
think the hitchhiker or the hitchhiker
is some kind of crazy
um
anti-social madman who wants to murder
everybody
especially this guy in a suit
another news bulletin came over the
radio
we're getting more information on the
escaped patient the killer's name is
simon hughes he escaped from the green
pastures institute earlier this evening
okay more more information his name is
simon hughes he escaped from the green
pastures
pastures institute sounds like a sort of
institute for mentally ill people
earlier this evening
simon hughes made his escape by changing
from his hospital issue uniform into a
suit and tie
and pretending to be one of the medical
staff he stole a car and drove off
okay so this is where the twist happens
this is when we realized that the killer
the escaped killer is in fact the driver
of the car because he escaped by
changing from his hospital uniform into
a suit and tie and pretending to be one
of the medical staff he stole a car and
drove off
the hitcher turned to the driver
what did you say your name was
now as far as i know the the driver
hasn't given his name yet
am i right i don't think this the
driver's actually given his name but
anyway this is the question that you ask
when someone has already told you their
name and you want to ask again what did
you say your name was what did you say
your name was meaning what's what's your
name again
what did you sorry what did you say your
name was you've already told me but i'm
asking again what did you say your name
was another way of saying it is uh what
was your name again
sorry what was your name again
my name's simon
said the driver
the hitcher stared in shock simon
grinned
the headlights of a passing car glinted
off the knife blade in simon's hand dun
dun dun
simon is the killer
and he's got a knife
simon grin the headlights of a passing
car glinted off the simon of the knife
blade so the headlights reflected
glinted off the knife blade in simon's
hand
and that is the end of the story
okay
there you go
all right listeners okay viewers so
that's been
um another story on luke's english
podcast i hope you've enjoyed it um
listen to some of my other episodes i've
got lots and lots of other episodes with
stories
loads of them in fact on my youtube
channel i've got a playlist which is
called stories and obviously that's
going to contain stories but not all of
my episodes are on youtube you should
know
so go to my website teacherluke.co.uk
and you can find the episode archive
let's have a quick look here
then i can show you so to the website
click on episodes
and then you will find the entire
episode archive and i've got
over 700 i've got nearly 750 episodes
here
a lot i've been doing this for 12 years
okay
the podcast is mainly an audio podcast
i also do youtube videos sometimes i've
been doing more youtube videos recently
but if you are someone who's just
discovered my podcast on youtube you
should know that i have loads of
episodes
of the audio podcast which you can
listen to and if you're thinking luke
can you do us an episode about this can
you do an episode about that can you do
more stories
there's a good chance that i've done
episodes about the things you're
interested in and i have done lots of
stories before so if i just type in
story
we'll see what we find
let's have a little look here
um i did one about michael jackson
episode 19.
let's see number 29 is a mystery story
that i wrote uh which also you can use
to learn narrative tenses you heard me
talking about past continuous and past
perfect and past simple you get all of
that from episode 29. let's just have a
look at a couple of other examples
um we've got sick in japan is this true
story of how i ended up in a hospital
bed i thought i was gonna die
in japan
luckily i was okay the pink gorilla
story is a an improvised story full of
comedy
and a stupid chase i get chased by a
pink gorilla through the streets of
london and there are many many more
things like that more stories and more
interviews and all sorts of stuff in the
episode archive so check them out thank
you so much for listening to this
episode of my podcast
another thing i should say is that i've
got a i've got an app did you know that
um in the app store on your phone
just search for the luke's english
podcast app and you'll be able to get it
and this gives you the entire episode
archive on your phone
including access to tons of uh bonus
episodes
okay there are app only episodes
you might be interested in the one which
is called
the hyde park mystery story that's a
mystery story i wrote and in that story
you can learn 50 different ways of
walking 50 different words
different verbs for walking that's a lot
all in
an interesting mystery story
and that's in my app on your phone
soon uh just download the luke's english
podcast app on your phone um okay thank
you very much for listening thank you
for watching don't forget to like and
subscribe to my youtube channel
and to tell your friends about luke's
english podcast i will speak to you
again uh very soon but for now it's just
time to say
goodbye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye